feat: override task timeouts in pipelineruns (#8636)
tektoncd/pipeline: docs/pipelineruns.md

Author: That is a good idea, not sure if the reorganization of the section fits in this PR, I am creating an issue out of this instead for now so that a contributor can pick it up.

      taskPodTemplate:
        nodeSelector:
          disktype: ssd
      timeout: "1h30m"
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

If used with this `Pipeline`,  `build-task` will use the task specific `PodTemplate` (where `nodeSelector` has `disktype` equal to `ssd`)
along with `securityContext` from the `pipelineRun.spec.podTemplate`. The task will also have a specific timeout of 1 hour and 30 minutes. This overrides any existing timeout already defined by the pipelineTask as well, though the specified `pipelineRun.spec.timeouts.tasks` will still take precedence.

> 

Author: updated

a different global default timeout value using the `default-timeout-minutes` field in
[`config/config-defaults.yaml`](./../config/config-defaults.yaml).

#### Overriding Individual Task Timeouts

You can use `taskRunSpecs` to override individual task timeouts at runtime without modifying the Pipeline definition.

> **Timeout Precedence (highest to lowest):**
> 1. `taskRunSpecs[].timeout` - runtime override per task
> 2. `pipeline.spec.tasks[].timeout` - Pipeline spec timeout
> 3. `timeouts.tasks` or `timeouts.pipeline` - PipelineRun constraints  
> 4. Global default timeout
> 
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
> kind: PipelineRun
> spec:
>   timeouts:
>     pipeline: "10m"    # 3. PipelineRun constraint
>   pipelineSpec:
>     tasks:
>     - name: task-a
>       timeout: "8m"     # 2. Pipeline spec timeout
>       taskSpec: { ... }
>     - name: task-b  
>       taskSpec: { ... } # 4. Uses global default (60m)
>   taskRunSpecs:
>   - pipelineTaskName: task-a
>     timeout: "5m"       # 1. Highest priority - overrides 8m Pipeline timeout
> ```
> 
> **Note:** `taskRunSpecs` timeouts cannot exceed pipeline-level constraints and will fail validation if they do.

Reviewer: "Precedence" I think might be the imprecise here, since it could also be interpreted as "enforcement precedence" (which is ironically mostly in opposite order). For example `timeouts.pipeline` has a **lower "assignment precedence"** than `taskRunSpecs[].timeout` since the latter will become the timeout of the TaskRun. But if `timeouts.pipeline` expires before `taskRunSpecs[].timeout` (e.g. if the Task with the overridden timeout is `runAfter` another long task), then the `timeouts.pipeline` will have a **higher "enforcement precedence"** since the Task will be cancelled as timed-out.

Also since the ordering is for assignment precedence, I removed `timeouts.tasks` and `timeouts.pipeline` to avoid confusion, since the a TaskRun does not inherit those values. To make this clearer I moved the note about pipeline-level timeouts above the example and elaborated slightly

```suggestion
**Timeout Assignment Precedence (highest to lowest)**
A PipelineRun's TaskRun's timeout is inherited from the first of the following fields which is specified, in order:

1. `taskRunSpecs[].timeout` - runtime override per task
2. `pipeline.spec.tasks[].timeout` - Pipeline spec timeout
3. Global default timeout

**Note:** `taskRunSpecs` timeouts cannot exceed pipeline-level constraints and will fail validation if they do.

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1
kind: PipelineRun
spec:
  timeouts:   # Not assigned to any individual TaskRun, but if expired will timeout all incomplete TaskRuns
    pipeline: "10m" 
    tasks: "9m"
  pipelineSpec:
    tasks:
    - name: task-a
      timeout: "8m"     # 2. PipelineTask timeout
      taskSpec: { ... }
    - name: task-b  
      taskSpec: { ... } # 3. No timeout specified - uses global default (60m) but since pipeline-level timeouts are shorter they will expire first and timeout the TaskRun
  taskRunSpecs:
  - pipelineTaskName: task-a
    timeout: "5m"       # 1. Highest priority during assignment - overrides 8m PipelineTask timeout
```

```
